First version of README.md (#1)
go4clouds/cloud-infra: README.md

# Cloud-infra

> ## _Software for setting up and managing Virtual Machines for online courses_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**cloud-infra** is open source software for setting up Kubernetes cluster for developers.
```

[comment]: # (OPIS)

## Table of Contents

* [Features](#features)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
* [Plugins](#plugins)
* [License](#license)

## Features

> - 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install Kubernetes cluster for learning, testing and developing applications. 
```

- 2

## Installation

1. First of all chceck is there any new packages that have just come to the repositories and fetch new versions of packages existing on the machine:
    ```sh

>     sudo apt-get update && apt-get upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sudo apt update && apt upgrade --yes
```

    ```

> 2. Install virtualization tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install required packages:
```

    ```sh

>     apt install qemu-kvm libvirt-daemon-system libvirt-clients bridge-utils virt-manager git-core libguestfs-tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sudo apt install qemu-kvm libvirt-daemon-system libvirt-clients bridge-utils virt-manager git-core libguestfs-tools jq
```

    ```

> 3. Entering the user to the access group, as a `root`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add your user to the `libvirt` and `kvm` group:
```

     ```sh
    sudo usermod -a -G kvm $(whoami)
    sudo usermod -a -G libvirt $(whoami)
    ```
    3.a. Now you can check user permissions by command:
    ```sh
    id
    ```

>     3.b. Or you can check user persmissions manually:

Reviewer: Please remove 3.b. point

    ```sh
    cat /etc/group | grep kvm
    cat /etc/group | grep libvirt
    ```
   >_Remember: If user has `0` it means that user is `root`, numbers `1000+` means that's normal user_

> 4. Get admin permissions:

Reviewer: This can be removed too

    ```sh
    sudo -i
    ```
5. Start libvirtd and check status:
    ```sh

>     systemctl start libvirtd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sudo systemctl start libvirtd
```

>     systemctl status libvirtd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sudo systemctl status libvirtd
```

    ```

> 6. Download system image from [Ubuntu Cloud Image][UbCi], and copy image from `/Downloads` to libwirt directory, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Download your favorite Linux cloud image e.g. [Ubuntu Cloud Image](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/) to `/var/lib/libvirt/images` directory:
```

    ```sh
    cd ~/Downloads/

>     sudo cp bionic-server-cloudimg-amd64.img /var/lib/libvirt/images/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sudo  curl -L https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/bionic/current/bionic-server-cloudimg-amd64.img --output /var/lib/libvirt/images/bionic-server-cloudimg-amd64.img
```

    ```

>     6.a (Optional) You can make copy of image to use it in the future

Reviewer: This can be dropped

    ```sh
    sudo cp /var/lib/libvirt/images/bionic-server-cloudimg-amd64.img /var/lib/libvirt/images/vm1.qcow2
    ```
    >Note, that you can change name of your image, by changing `vm1`_
    

> 7. Set password for root user, using previously installed `libguestfs`:

Reviewer: Drop

    ```sh
    sudo virt-customize -a /var/lib/libvirt/images/vm1.qcow2 --root-password password:<YOUR_PASSWORD>
    ```
    _Change `<YOUR_PASSWORD>`, as you want_

> 8. Check ip adress of your Virtual Machine:

Reviewer: Drop

    ```sh
    ip a
    ```

>     8.a If there is no ip adress, you may start dhclient service:

Reviewer: Drop

    ```sh
    dhclient
    ```

> 9. Configure ssh access:

Reviewer: Drop

    ```sh
    dpkg-reconfigure openssh-server
    systemctl restart ssh
    ```

> 10. Install Terraform framework:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Install Terraform project on you environment:
```

    ```sh
    sudo -i

>     curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sudo curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
```

    sudo apt-add-repository "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture)] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main"

>     apt install terraform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sudo apt install terraform
```

    ```
11. Start Terraform:
    ```sh
    terraform init
    terraform plan

>     terraform apply -auto-approve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    terraform apply --auto-approve
```

    ```
12. After all, you can clean up using:
    ```sh

>     terraform destroy -auto-approve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    terraform destroy --auto-approve
```

    ```
    
## Technologies used

Cloud-infra uses a number of open source projects to work properly:

- [Terraform][TF] - codifies cloud APIs into declarative configuration files
- [Kernel Virtual Machine][KVM] - is a full virtualization solution for Linux on x86 hardware containing virtualization extensions
- [Libvirt][LV] - is a toolkit to manage virtualization platforms
- [Bridge Utils][BU]- a utility needed to create, manage and setting up networks for a hosted virtual machine
- [Virtual Machine Manager][VMM]-  is a desktop user interface for managing virtual machines through libvirt
- [Git][GIT]- version control system
- [Virtual Machine Manager][LGFS]-  tools for accessing and modifying virtual machine disk images

And of course Cloud-infra is open source with a [repository][repo] on GitHub.

> ## Plugins

Reviewer: I would change it to `Requirements` instead

Physical server or PC with:
8x CPU cores
24GB of Ram
256GB free space on hard disk
Linux OS installed
